hello maths fans dr tom crawford here at
the university of
oxford and today i'm doing a maths a
level exam
now this is something quite a few of you
have requested
so i'm not calling it a speed run
because i haven't done an a level exam
in about 14 years but
i have the 2018 edxl pure maths paper
from the a level maths course i haven't
looked at it
at all i haven't looked at the syllabus
i haven't looked at the formula booklet
i do have my calculator so i found an
old casio
that i think i had when i actually did
my a levels so i don't know if this is
still allowed or not but this is what
i've got
um and i'm going to have a go at the
full exam
i think i've got two hours to do it
hopefully i can do it faster
i'm gonna do it all on my ipad so you
can see exactly what i'm writing
and we'll see how it goes okay let's do
this
i'm quite nervous i'll be honest i
haven't done an exam in
oh about eight or nine years so this is
pretty terrifying but
let's see what we've got question one
integral okay so q1
asking me to integrate 2 3
x cubed minus 6 root x which i'll write
as x to the half
plus 1 dx so
i'm just gonna rules of integration x to
the fourth over
four minus six new power three over two
divide by that means multiplying by two
thirds
plus x plus c simplify that
and we'll get x to the fourth over six
minus four x to the three over two
plus x plus c right
question two uh show this is a quadratic
is
paul okay so the quadratic is positive
right
so i've got x squared minus 8x plus
17. i want to show that's positive for
all
real x so it's definitely a u
shape because of the positive x squared
it's gonna look something like that
passing through 17.
now let's just double check by looking
at chronic formula
so if we've got imaginary roots or
complex roots it can't cross the axis
that's my plan so x is minus b
plus or minus the square root of b
squared minus
4 times 17 minus 68 all over
2 so that's 4 plus or minus
it's going to be a half of root minus
four
so that's going to be four plus or minus
that's going to be i
complex roots therefore doesn't cross
the axis so it's positive
number two okay oh
it's like a riddle if i had 3 to a
square number
3 to a number sorry i add 3 to a number
x plus 3.
and then square it we're claiming the
result is greater
than the square of the original all
right so and solve this inequality
x squared plus 6 x plus 9 must be
greater than x squared
that only works if
so the so the x squared will cancel and
that will only work if six
x is greater than minus nine so x must
be greater than minus
nine over six so if x is bigger than
minus three over two then it works
so it's false in general because it says
uh it's sometimes true it's true for
so it's true if x is greater than minus
over two
and it's false otherwise eg
when x is minus 2 x plus 3
squared is going to give me uh
x plus 3 oh
gosh it is 1 and
x squared of course is four so then it
would be
false all right i think i've done enough
for that one
so question three
um right vectors so we've got position
vector we've got a is
4i minus 5j
which i can write as 4 comma minus 5.
we've got b it's in the position minus
5i
minus 2j i can write as minus 5 minus 2.
find a b right and that's part a
wants me to find a b so
let's just draw a diagram so a is going
to be four across minus five
down that's down here so that's a
and then b is minus five minus two so
that's like here
to be i want to go from a to b
which is going to be this dotted line
that's minus a plus b
right so that's b minus a
so that is going to be minus 5
i plus minus
2j um and then minus
a so that's minus 4
i and then minus becomes a plus
plus 5 j so putting all of that together
i get minus 9i
plus 3j is a b
uh and that works i'm going left a lot
and up a little bit
perfect now b wants me to know the
length of this vector
so that's the square root of the two
bits squared so that's 81 plus
9 square rooted which is root 90
which is 3. 10
i think that's simple as it gets all
right so that's me about some lines
so question four we've got l
one given by four y
minus three x equals ten so
4y is 3x plus 10. so y
is 3 quarters x was 10 over 4.
so the gradient's going to be important
here because it's asking me about
parallel perpendicular
and then if i look at l2
that's going to tell me now it's got to
pass through the points
5 minus 1 and
minus 1 eight so let's think about
the graph so five across minus one down
minus one up eight up so that's going
something like this
okay and we wanna know that gradient
so the gradient that's called m2 for l2
is
difference in the y values so that's
nine divided by the difference in the x
values minus one minus five minus six
so the gradient there is minus three
over two
gradient up here is three quarters
so their product is not minus one so
they are
not and they're not the same so they're
not parallel not perpendicular so the
answer is
neither
okay question five so
oh i'm marking a student's work i'm used
to this
uh this is this is a fun a-level
question definitely have these when i
did edibles
all right so he's trying to solve this
problem and identify some errors write
the questions
right so i'm going to just solve it
myself and then we'll compare i think
that's the easiest
way to do this so um right so we're
looking at 2
log base 2 of x minus
log base 2 root x equals 3.
okay so first i'm going to do is put
that 2 inside
comes x squared 2 root x
then i'm going to combine the logs
using the subtraction rule so that's
then x squared over
root x from there
uh and that has to equal 3 yeah then
that's log
2 x to the
3 over 2 is 3
and then oh i think the way this works
now
is i'm trying to work out
i know that i'm saying here that 2 cubed
must equal
x to the 3 over 2. so that's 8.
so 8 is x to the 3 over 2.
so let's cube root both sides
so if i cube root both sides i get 2
equals
x to the half so x is 4.
all right so i think x is 4 and the
student's got 9 so there's a mistake
right what did they
do different um right so the first
mistake is the student
has left the two they've pretended that
there was a two
inside that log so the subtraction law
they couldn't use the traction law until
they'd done the powers
so for mistake one let's write
mistakes they use the subtraction law
before the powers
okay and then i think what's happened is
at the end
they've said log 2x is 3
that doesn't mean that x is 3 squared
that means that
2 to the 3 should be x so i think
they've used the definition
so they've used the incorrect definition
of log
and i stand by my answer and i'm going
to just double check it makes sense
by plugging it in so log to the base two
of four is two two times two is
four and then minus
the log to the base two of
two is one perfect equals three tick
and a smiley face because we did it
correct
right that's number five okay question
six
um this looks like economics
which i did not do at a level uh
hopefully i can figure this out
uh right so question six
what are we doing uh we've got a graph
we've got a function okay
so profit hundreds of thousands of
pounds
okay so that's a hundred thousand minus
six point 6.25
times x minus nine squared
okay and then we've got this graph
right so we can see here very clearly
that
there's a peak profit a maximum profit
here and then we're going to make a loss
at certain values of x
okay good and x is the selling price
fabulous
right using the model explained by 15
pounds is not sensible
selling price well let's plug that in
see what we get right
so if i have
question a 15 is a bad idea so suppose x
equals 15
then p is going to be 100 which is in
thousands remember
minus 6.25 x minus 9 that's 6
squared so that's 100 minus
equals 100 minus 6.25 times 36
right that's greater than 100. don't
need to know the number
so profit's negative bad idea gonna lose
money
right part b uh according to the model
the least possible selling price for the
toy given they made a profit
of more than 80. right well let's see
what happens if their profit was 80. so
suppose
p was 80. then you've got 80
is 100 minus 6.25
times x minus 9 squared right
so now minus 100 from the 80
gives you minus 20
minus 20 equals minus right make both
those pluses
so 2 5 times x minus 9 squared
okay so x minus 9 squared
is equal to 20 over 6.24
calculator right come on then cause you
don't know if you still know how to work
this
20 divided by 6.25
is 16 over 5 even gave it me then you
can see that gave me as a fraction
awesome all right so 16 over 5
okay so
that means what that means that x minus
is equal to plus or minus 4 over root
5 so that means that x is equal to
9 plus or minus 4 divided by
root 5. so in order to get exactly
80 as the profit x is either
9 plus what was 4 divided by root 5 i
guess i better do that
four divided by the square root of five
oh it's very helpfully given me a
fraction which i don't want
oh how do i change this it's been a
while since i did this
um there's got to be a way to do this
i don't want a fraction
i want the number mode no ah
don't want that no um shift
no alpha ah this is gonna annoy me
um i don't want to round i want the
exact answer
please calculator
don't do the uh all right i don't think
this is going to help me
all right we're out don't undo the
calculator okay so it's 9 plus or minus
4 root 5.
so for one of those two values the
profit is
80. so that would give us two points up
here then wouldn't it it would be like
one would be here
and one would be here to give us
80. so the least
possible selling price is going to be
nine so the least possible i believe
will be nine minus four divided by root
five
pounds all right can't get anyone give
me better than that i have to deal with
it
okay uh wishes to maximize annual profit
uh stage control the maximum possible
profit
right so now if i'm maximizing profit i
think what we need to do this time
is find that turning point at the top so
we're going to have to differentiate
and find this p value and that x value
okay so where's my equation again so we
know that p
p equals 100 minus 6.25
times x minus 9 squared
so dp by dx let's differentiate set that
to 0.
so that's going to be minus 12.5 times x
minus 9.
so that's zero at the max so in other
words x is nine at the maximum
so that's the best selling price to
maximize profit
uh and then if x is nine their profit
will be
100 000 pounds
because the second bit zero so they're
probably a hundred thousand pounds
they sell the toy for nine pounds
perfect
oh right staying hydrated
so question seven
okay we've got a triangle abc let's draw
a triangle
um okay a
b c what do we know
a b has side length ten this has side
length five this is theta
okay fabulous i'm going to want to know
the height
so let's call that h okay and then the
area we're told that the area here
is 15. that's a half base height
that's a half five h
so that tells me that h is six okay
so that's helpful so now we know let's
call that
six up here
okay and then we know what now ah we
know sine
we know that sine of theta is opposite
over so that's 6 over 10
which is 3 over 5
and then you've got your 3 4 5 triangle
so that tells us tells us what
this is three four and five
then cos of theta must be
four fifths so that's one value
uh i'm guessing
ah and then if we maybe if we go from
here
i've definitely done this the wrong way
uh here we go from here
maybe we can say uh cos squared is 1
minus sine squared
1 minus 9 over 25. so cos squared is 16
over 25
so cos of theta is maybe plus or minus
four fifths will also work all right
that's two answers it does say two
possible i'm going with that i'm going
with that
okay uh right and then the second part
find the exact length of bc bush
okay so what do we know then so we know
that cos of theta
and we know sine of theta so we could
figure out theta
if we needed to um
oh how am i going to find the length of
b
c kind of
maybe cosine rule so what do we know so
if this one
this is a this is c and this is
b oh i remember the cosine rule
um the cosine is this is a formula maybe
i should look at the
booklet but i didn't look at the booklet
um okay cosine rule i think says that
i think it says that a squared is b
squared plus c
squared minus two b c cos of theta
cos of a where a is opposite yeah okay
i think that's right we'll see so i
think a squared must be b squared which
is 25
plus 100 minus
2 lots of 5 is 10 minus 100 again
cos of theta which is 4 fifths
so a squared well it could be plus or
minus that
i guess it's gonna be minus i think
looking at the diagram
um but that could be plus or minus i
suppose and then 25 says 125
plus or minus 80.
so if it was 205 i think the triangle
would be too big
so i'm going to say i think a squared
must be
45 so that tells me that a
is the square root of 45 which is going
to be 3 root 5.
so i think a is 3.5 centimeters
ah i've just reread the question
good practice and i've noticed it says
bc is the longest
side so 3 times root 5
that's going to be less than 10. so it's
not that so it's plus
my apologies so that's going to be
always read the question everybody
that's going to be
uh plus the 80. so that's going to be
now so a
is the square root of 205. that's the
answer
not the other one read the question bc
is the longest side all right now i'm
happy with that now i'm happy with that
all right question eight
oh a lorry is driven between london and
new this is fun
london newcastle it's simple monday the
cost of the journey
and the jersey spade is okay so we've
got c
is given by 1500 divided by the steady
constant speed v
plus 2v over 11
plus 60 right final quantum model the
value of v that minimizes
all right so minimizing means
differentiate solve for zero
so dc by dv is
minus 1500 over v squared
plus 2 over 11. and we want to solve
that equal to zero
so that tells me that 1500
must equal two v squared
over eleven so eleven times fifteen
hundred equal that
so v squared is gonna make me use a
calculator again
fifteen hundred times ten 15 000 16
500 i think
yes divided by 2
okay so that's 8250
so v is the square root of 8250
okay so square root of 8 2 5
0 is 5
root 3 30 this this calculator is
useless
that's the speed i don't even know if
that's i think it's reasonable all right
so that's our speed
the minimum cost this is basically
graphical numerical methods are not
acceptable interesting okay so then the
minimum cost of the journey
is then plugging that in so
the cost c is then equal to
1 500 over 5 root
330 plus 2
times 5 root 3 30 over 11
plus 60. so that mess of a number
um can i simplify it a bit probably
let's say it was 300 over root 330
plus 10 11 root 3
30 plus 60. oh i don't really
i really have to do this probably
probably also not
fine all right prove by using the second
derivative the cost is minimized
okay so for it to be a minimum second
derivative is positive
so we had that dc
by dv is was minus 1500 over v squared
plus 2 over 11. so then the second
derivative
it's going to be b to the minus 2
something comes down becomes a 3
000 b cubed which is positive
because b's velocity so it's positive so
therefore minimum
good and then
state one limitation of this model so
that was b
the limitation of the model um
not don't drive
at constant speed obviously there's
accelerating there's decelerating
etc so we don't drop constant speed
okay question nine so what is this
asking me to do
use the factor theorem to show that x is
a factor of this okay so g of x
is 4x cubed
minus 12x squared
minus 15x plus 50.
and then make sure that x 2 is a factor
so x plus 2
is a factor if g of minus 2 is 0.
so let's calculate it g of minus 2 is
4 lots of minus 8 minus 12
times 4 plus 30
plus 50 so that's minus 32
minus 48 plus 80
which is zero hooray so that's a factor
perfect
so that's part a part b
says hence show that g of x can be
written
in this particular form
uh well that just follows from the
fundamental theorem of algebra which i'm
pretty sure it's not what i'm going to
say but i'm going to say it um so we
know that
okay so therefore g of x is
x plus 2 times some ah squared right
so let's figure it out so i need uh to
get 4x cubed i need a 4x squared
and then i've got plus 8x squared so i
need to then minus
a lot of x squareds because i've got
plus 8 of them so i need the minus 20 of
them
yeah and then i've now got minus 40x so
i better add
25 of them that gives me the 50. perfect
so that's going to be x plus 2 and
that's going to be
2x plus 5
minus 5. 2x minus 5.
so that's going to be that will be
the correct solution there squared and
let's just double check
4x minus minus 20 plus perfect
okay good so that's finding a and b a is
so what if i got to be proper i can say
that a is 2
b is minus five great plot c
i figure she does a sketch of this curve
use your answer part b and the sketch
reduce the values of x for which that
right so i know that the roots when it
crosses zero
r when x is minus two and then it
touches
at two x equals five so when x is five
over two
so therefore from the sketch
g of x is negative g of x is less than
or equal to zero
for x less than or equal to minus two
and then g of two x is zero
interesting g of two x
equals zero when
at any of the roots
hmm okay so i know that bit
that's three minus two and then g of two
x
so two x stretches it but the zero roots
will stay the same
so i think this is true
when two x is a root of g
so this is when 2x
is a root of g
and then we know the roots we know that
one root is two so
two x equals minus two so that means
that
x is minus four
okay fine
and then we also need 2x to be the other
root which was 5 over 2
so 2x equals 5 over 2 tells me that x
is five over four
so i think at these these points
i think we have g of two x is zero all
right question ten
must be getting there soon surely how
many questions can there be uh
investments derivative of x cubed is 3x
squared right okay so that's the
so f dash of x is the limit as x goes to
not x as h goes to zero
of as h goes to zero
of um f of x plus h
minus f of x all over h
right so here we're using the derivative
of x
cubed so that's the limit as h goes to 0
of x plus h
cubed minus x cubed over h
which is the limit as h goes to zero
of x cubed plus three x
squared h plus 3 h squared
x
um plus
h cubed minus x
cubed i think is what we're going to get
there
yes divided by h
then x cubes cancel i can cancel the
h's so this is the limit
so this is the limit as h goes to zero
of three x squared plus
three x h plus h squared
and then we can take that limit because
there's nothing on the denominator and
that's just 3
x squared smiley face awesome
right question 11
part a binomial expansion
it's probably a formula for this i'm
gonna i'm gonna taylor expand so
i'm gonna write this as 2 minus x
over 16 um
to the nine right so i can factor out
a 2 and there's 1 minus x over 32
to the 9. and then that's going to be 2
to the 9
times 1 minus 9x
over 32 plus
you're then going to get an x squared
you need to get a 9
times an 8 divided by 2 and then you've
got 32 squared on the bottom
which is 2 to the power 2 to the 10 plus
dot dot okay so
if 32
oh do i really have to work out two to
the nine calculator
t to the nine forget i'm allowed these
okay 2 to the power
9 is 512 thank you right so i think this
is 512
minus what's 512 divided by 32
16 minus 9
times 16 x
plus whoa if we got on the top and the
bottom i've got a 2 to the 12
from the 2 cubed and the 2 9 the 2 to
the 12. then i've got
9x squared over 2 to the 11.
so the first three terms are 512.
9 lots of 164 x
plus 18
x squared i hope okay
so uh part b
part b is then asking me um
given that the first oh we've got
another function okay so we've got
another function
f of x
a plus b x times
the thing we just played with right so
that's going to be helpful
okay aiming constant the first two terms
are those ones finally of a
okay so we know that this is a plus bx
times 512 minus
144x plus dot dot dot
and they're told this has to equal
and we're told that this has to equal
uh the first two terms are 128
so we know that this has to be
has equal 128 plus 36 x
right and then if we actually calculate
it so that's 512
a first term
minus 144 a x
plus 512 b x
plus order x squared right so if we
equate them we know
that 512 a is one two
eight so that tells me that a is
one to eight over five twelve is one
quarter okay so here's a quarter
and then for b what have we got with a
is a quarter
oh then for b we've got to equate the
coefficient of x so we need
36 has to be equal to
512 times b minus
quarter of 144 minus 36.
so b is 72 over
500 and 12 and a is
one quarter sweet i hope
nasty numbers i don't know if you expect
these weird numbers in a level exams
right question 12.
show the equation written all right like
these things so
4 cos theta minus 1
equals 2 sine theta tan theta okay so
tan is
um sine theta over cos theta so let's
just start by writing that out
and showing everything like that right
so i'm going to multiply it by cause so
i'm gonna get four cos
squared theta minus cos theta
equals two sine squared and then i'm
going to sub
and say well that's 2 lots of 1 minus
cos squared theta
so i'm going to get 6 cos squared theta
um minus cos theta
minus 2 is 0. which is what i wanted
hooray
okay uh and then part b
and solve for x between 0 and 90.
okay so hence of x 0 and 90
the whole thing oh not quite so we're
solving
4 cars 3x
minus 1 equals 2
sine 3x tan right so 3x is just theta
but i have a quadratic for cos so i can
solve this
this is just 6y squared minus y minus 2
is 0. so what do i know is going to be
my answer
i can factorize this so i can use the
quadratic formula so y is equal to 1
plus or minus the square root of
b squared 1 minus 4ac plus 48.
okay all divided by 12. so y
is 1 plus or minus
square root of 49 is 7 over 12. so y is
equal to
8 over 12 or one minus seven over twelve
minus six there were two so
we know that cos of theta
is equal to eight twelfths that's
two-thirds or minus one-half
and we're looking for the range naught
to 90 so not 90 cars between north and
is positive so it has to be that
so we know that theta is our cos of two
thirds
so i know that three x is equal to
cos minus one two thirds i'll have to
use my calculator again
okay so cos minus one i think i can do
that cos minus one of
two divided by three
okay and then so x is just that
divided by three i think this is going
to be in degrees
um so it's going to be 16 and so divided
by
3. it's going to be 16. how many decimal
places
one decimal place all right 16.1 degrees
i believe is the answer right
question 13.
we have a graph again like economics
values of paintings all right
question 13. the logo of
him by the equation v equals
p times q to the t okay p and q our
constant zoom of years right
line l shows the linear relationship
between t and log 10 of v
so this is arc to the base 10 of b
fabulous this is time
yep great and then you've got a line
that's going to look like that
fab the equation of the line and we know
the equation fabulous so we know that
log ten of v
equals 0.05 t so that's the gradient of
my straight line
plus 4.8 which is the intercept so this
is 4.8
and then i know that the gradient m is
equal to 0.05
fantastic fine to four significant
figures the value of p
and the value of q right
so what i have to do here is
we need to exponentiate both sides to
the power
10 so v is equal to 10
0.05 t
plus 4.8 so that's equal to 10 to the
4.8
multiplied by 10 to the 0.05
t right
and we want to write this as
p is p q
to the power t so that's equal
to 10 to the 4.8 so that's p
and then q is 10 to the 0.05 t
so this is p this is q put them in my
calculator
10 to the power oh power button
power button 10 to the
where are you there 4.8
so p is six three how many figures
four significant figures six three zero
and it's nine five so that's six three
one i think
six three zero nine you'd go up yeah six
three that's p
and then q is 10 to the 0.05 10
to the norm 0.5
it is q then is 1.122
zero so four significant figures
delete that last
all right so that's p and q now
versions of the model interpret the
value of the constant p and the value of
the constant
q so here
p is rep so q is representing the
rate of increase right so q
is representing the increase in value
over time
so i think for part b q is the rate of
increase
in value over time
so that's like how much it's going up as
it progresses
and p is equal to its initial
starting value more or less yeah p
is the sort of initial value at the time
of creation
initial value all right find the value
of the patient expected by the model on
the first of january 2010 you may answer
nearest hundred thousand
right so we've got um
part c um we know p and q
and we're asked about on the first of
january 2010
so we know that p now is equal to sixty
thousand one hundred
we've got the q is
one point one two two
and so what else do we know
so since the first of january 1980
right and we're told that v is equal to
p q to the t
so if we want to know its value on 2010
that's 30 years so t
is equal to 30 30 years
so the value is simply 63
100 multiplied by 1.122
to the power 30. so plugging that in my
calculator
1.122 to the
power of 30. oh syntax
syntax error that's a new one let's try
again 1.122
to the power 30.
thank you it was 31.6 and then
multiplied that by 63 100
equals to how many significant figures
nearest hundred thousand pounds so
that's i think this is
one million 994 4413 pounds
so nearest hundred thousand pounds means
this is worth
two million pounds
in 2010 okay question four
this is never ending question 14.
um this is intense by the way i'm now
beginning to feel
a little bit of sympathy for you all
this is this is long
question 14. the circle c has this
equation right
x squared plus y squared
minus six x plus ten y
equals minus extend like plus nine
even don't make a mistake writing the
question out equals zero
okay find the coordinates of the center
the radius
okay brilliant so you want to complete
the square so
that's going to be let's think about
this completing the square there you've
got
x it's part a
x minus three squared gives me the minus
six x and then i need to
that will be plus nine so i need to
minus nine
okay covers those two terms plus
y plus 5 squared that can be plus 25
minus the 25
plus 9 equals 0. so i get x minus 3
squared plus y plus 5 squared
equals okay so minus 9 plus 9
equals 25 so the center
is 3 minus 5 and the radius is the
square root of 25 which is
5. brilliant okay so 14 part
b so we've figured out the center of
uh right yep gotcha okay thought we'd be
doing something like this so we've got
uh we know the center of the circle
that was three minus five
and then we're gonna have radius five so
it's gonna look something like that it's
gonna
touch the x-axis
but it's gonna overlap there and then
we're gonna have a line here and we're
interested in what's this gradient so
that they perfectly
touch where this is y equals k x
right and we know that this is at three
minus five and it has radius five
okay so we know this far over point is
at x
equals minus 2.
all right so i think what we're going to
do here then is plug in
y being equal to kx into my equation so
i get x squared
plus k squared x squared
minus 6x plus 10y plus 10k
x plus 9 equals 0.
and then if they're going to intersect
this has to be
equal to zero this has to have solutions
this will have to have solutions so
let's
quadratic formula so i can get 1 plus k
squared
times x squared plus x times 10
k minus 6 plus 9 is 0.
so i can then say that x is equal to
minus b
so 6 minus 10k
all divided by 1 plus 2 lots of 1 plus k
squared
plus or minus the square root of
10 k minus 6 squared minus
4 times 9 times 1 plus k squared
right and if this is gonna have real
roots
for it to exist we have to have positive
discriminant
i think let's try that anyway it's
definitely true but i think that's the
way to do this
so we can say now that we need
positive discriminant
so we have to have
so we need 100 k squared
minus 120 k
plus 36 minus
36 minus 36 k squared
to be positive so those two cancel
so we need 64 k
squared greater than 120 k
so we need k bigger than 120 over 64
which is gonna be oh
15 over eight so k can be greater than
15 over eight
to get the intersection there uh could
it be negative
and then if we had a negative gradient
it's always
going to intersect isn't it yes
yes or okay
negative right last question here we go
uh so we've got to figure out this area
of course we do
okay and it's quite fiddly um so
let's think about a careful diagram
so we have a curve coming down going
back up
we know this is coming in at x equals
two so that's helpful
we know the other point is four
it also corresponds to six okay
then we have this straight line coming
down so we need to know this
intercept and that will give us a
triangle and then we can add
to the integrated area right then
so let's do the integrated area first
because we know that
so let's say that can be
the blue section this bit
here blue grey same thing so this area
is just the integral from 2 to 4
of 32 x to the minus 2
plus 3x minus 8 dx
so that is -32
over x plus 3 over 2x
squared minus 8x between my two limits
so that's going to be minus 8.
plus three lots of 1648 plus 24
minus 32 minus the second lot
minus 16
plus for minus
16 again okay so that should give me
minus 40 plus 24 minus 16
minus minus 26.
so that gives me 10. so i think this
area is equal
to 10. so hopefully the triangle will be
36 and then we've got the answer because
we're asked to show that it was 46.
so for this area
we're going to need to calculate the
equation of the line
but what do we know we know that this is
normal so we need to know the tangent
so let's calculate the tangent gradient
so differentiate our function so dy by
dx
is um what have i got there i've got
minus 2 so minus 64 over x
cubed plus 3 right
and then i need to know the value of
this at
x equals four uh
so the gradient at x equals four is
given by
minus 64 over 64
plus 3 so that's equal to
2 for the tangent so the normal
gradient is
going to be minus one half so the
equation of this line
is y equals minus one half x plus
c and then we know it goes to the point
four
six so we know that six must equal
minus one half of four minus two plus c
so c is eight so then here we know
x is zero no y is zero
so that tells me that minus one half
x plus eight is zero
so x is sixteen so i've got a triangle
uh and height six so
it's going to be
16 sorry is the value here so the value
along the bottom
is from 4 so that's 12 of course isn't
it because it's from 12 to 16.
so that is now 12.
so half base times height is 36 yes
6 times 6. so the area of the orange is
and then the total is 36 plus 10.
46 what we have to get yes
okay phew i'm relieved more more than
anything i think that i did get those
questions correct
uh at least i think i certainly used
some different methods
from what i'm seeing in the mark scheme
but i'm getting the same answers
so you have to be awarded the marks for
getting the correct answers
so i think fingers crossed touchwood i
think i would
have indeed got full marks on that a
level exam but that was quite tough
that was quite tough i won't lie
especially trying to do it fast it feels
like a lot more pressure
when you're trying to do it as quickly
as possible so that just leads me to say
thank you everybody for watching
i hope you've enjoyed the new style of
video that i'm trying out
please do remember to subscribe if
you've enjoyed this video and check out
all the other content
on my channel and i'll see you all very
soon